---
title: Biography
author: Emmanuel Bernard
layout: constant-sidebar
tab: home
---
  
# #{page.title}

If you need my biography for a conference, use the following one (available in English or French). You can also find my picture below.

## English

Emmanuel Bernard is data platform architect for the JBoss portfolio at Red Hat.
He oversees data related projects and in particular the Hibernate portfolio
where he came from.

Emmanuel joined the Hibernate team in 2003 and most of his work is open source
since then.  He has lead the JPA implementation of Hibernate ORM, founded and
lead Hibernate Search, Hibernate Validator. His latest project endeavour is
Hibernate OGM but he also contributes to Ceylon, Awestruct and a few other
projects in his spare time.

Emmanuel is a member of the JPA 2.1 expert group and the spec lead of Bean
Validation. He is a regular speaker at various conferences and JUGs, including
JavaOne, JBoss World and Devoxx and the co-author of [Hibernate Search in
Action](/books/hsia/) published by Manning. He is also founder and co-host of
two podcasts: [JBoss Community Asylum](http://asylum.jboss.org) and [Les Cast
Codeurs Podcast](http://lescastcodeurs.com).

You can follow him on twitter at
[@emmanuelbernard](http://twitter.com/emmanuelbernard).

## Français

Emmanuel Bernard est architecte plate-forme données sur le portefeuille JBoss
chez Red Hat. Il supervise les projets liées aux données et en particulier le
portefeuille Hibernate d'où il vient.

Emmanuel a rejoint l'équipe Hibernate en 2003 et depuis, son travail est
quasiment 100% open source. Il a dirigé l'implémentation JPA d'Hibernate, fondé
et dirigé Hibernate Search, Hibernate Validator. Sa dernière aventure est
Hibernate OGM mais il contribue aussi à Ceylon, Awestruct et quelques autres
projets pendant son temps libre.

Emmanuel est membre de l'expert group JPA 2.1 et spec lead de Bean Validation.
Il intervient régulièrement dans diverses conférences et JUGs, dont JavaOne,
JBoss World, Devoxx et est le co-auteur d'[Hibernate Search in
Action](/books/hsia/) publié par Manning. Il est aussi le fondateur et co-hôte
de deux podcasts: [Les Cast Codeurs](http://lescastcodeurs.com) (Français) et
[JBoss Community Asylum](http://asylum.jboss.org) (Anglais).

Vous pouvez le suivre sur twitter à
[@emmanuelbernard](http://twitter.com/emmanuelbernard).

## Pictures

Preferred

![Portrait](/images/headshot/EmmanuelBernardConference.jpg)

Squared

![Squared portrait](/images/headshot/EmmanuelBernardConferenceSquare.jpg)

    
